Welcome, this week,
I will talk about long short term
memory cells, which we call LSTMs.
To understand why they are important,
let me explain the vanishing
gradient problem, so let's dive in.
>> I'll introduce you to
vanishing/exploding gradients,
a problem common to RNNs, and then
demonstrate a few ways to handle them.
Let's begin with a discussion
of some of the pros and
cons of using a recurrent neural network.
For one, the way plain or
vanilla RNN model sequences by recalling
information from the immediate past,
allows you to capture dependencies
to a certain degree, at least.
They're also relatively lightweight
compared to other n-gram models,
taking up less RAM and space.
But there are downsides,
the RNNs architecture optimized for
recalling the immediate past causes
it to struggle with longer sequences.
And the RNNs method of
propagating information
is part of how vanishing/exploding
gradients are created,
both of which can cause your
model training to fail.
Vanishing/exploding gradients
are a problem,
this can arise due to the fact that RNNs
propagates information from the beginning
of the sequence through to the end.
Starting with the first
word of the sequence,
the hidden value at the far left,
the first values are computed here.
Then it propagates some of
the computed information,
takes the second word in the sequence,
and gets new values.
You can see that process illustrated here,
the orange
area denotes the first computed values,
and the green denotes the second word.
The second values are computed using
the older values in orange, and
the new word in green.
After that, it takes the third word and
propagates the values from the first and
second words and computes another set
of values from both of those, and
it continues in a similar way from there.
At the final step,
the computations contain information
from all the words in the sequence, and
the RNN is able to predict the next word,
which in this example is goal.
Know that in an RNN,
the information from the first step
doesn't have much
influence on the outputs.
This is why you can see the orange
portion from the first step
decreasing with each new step.
Correspondingly, computations
made at the first step don't
have much influence on
the cost function either.
The gradients are calculated
during back propagation, or
the process of moving backwards towards
the initial layer from the final
layer that was reached
during the forward pass.
The derivatives from each layer
are then multiplied from back to
front in order to compute
the derivative of the initial layer.
You can think of gradients as a measure
of how much a model can improve
over a series of time steps.
When your network performs
back propagation,
it's weights receive an update
that's proportional to the gradients
with respect to the current
weights of that time step.
But in the network with many time steps or
layers, having a gradient arrived back
at the early layers as the product of all
the terms from the later layers makes for
an inherently unstable situation.
Especially if the values have become so
small, that's why it no
longer updates properly.
For the problem of exploding gradients,
imagine this process working in
the opposite direction,
as the updated weights become so
large that they cause the whole
network to become unstable.
This situation can lead
to numerical overflow.
Now that you're appropriately terrified
of vanishing/exploding gradients,
let's discuss some solutions.
I won't spend a whole lot of time
on this since this week focuses
on a model approach that was
designed to mitigate this problem.
You can deal with vanishing gradients
by initializing your weights to
the identity matrix, which carries
values of 1 along the main diagonal and
0 everywhere else, and
using a ReLU activation.
What this essentially does is
copy the previous hidden states,
add information from the current inputs,
and replace any negative values with 0.
This has the effects of encouraging your
network to stay close to the values in
the identity matrix, which act like
1s during matrix multiplication.
This method is referred to,
unsurprisingly, as an identity RNN.
The identity RNN approach only works for
vanishing gradients through
as the derivative of ReLU is equal
to 1 for all values greater than 0.
To account for
values growing exponentially,
you can perform gradient clipping.
To clip your gradients,
simply choose a relevant value that
you clip the gradients to, say 25.
Using this technique, any value
greater than 25 will be clipped to 25,
this serves to limit
the magnitude of the gradients.
Finally, skip connections provide a direct
connection to the earlier layers.
This effectively skips over
the activation functions and
adds the value from your initial
inputs x to your outputs, or F(x) + x.
This way,
activations from early layers have
more influence over the cost function.
>> Now you understand how RNNs can have
a problem with vanishing gradients.
Next, I will show you a solution,
the LSTM, let's go to the next video.